README.md, before:

# CmdEngine

A lightweight **terminal-based shape printer and generator** with tools for **modeling, animating, and mathematical operations**.
Designed for experimenting with ASCII shapes, basic 3D projections, and simple animation logic inside command-line environments.

---

## Features

### Shape Modeling

* **2D built-in shapes:** rectangle, triangle, circle
* **3D built-in shapes:** cube, cylinder, sphere *(early stage)*
* **Shape modifiers:** subdivide, duplicate, mirror
* **Custom shape support** *(work in progress)*
* **Text handling objects** for printing and layout

### Animation System

A variety of animation utilities for both shapes and characters:

* `animation()` — translation and scale tracking
* `shape_animation()` — flipping or shape-change animations
* `subdivide_animation()` — subdivision animation
* `unite_animation()` — individual-character scale-space animation
* `style_animation()` — builder-cell/unit flipping animations
* `text_animation()` — animated text display
* `draw_animation()` — animated “flow of drawing” effect

### Tools Included

* Basic math utilities: `Vec2`, `Vec3`
* Logical and helper tools for geometry & scene management

---

## 🧱 Usage Examples

### **2D Shape Example**

```python
from cmn.models import Rectangle

square = Rectangle(10, 10)
square.draw()
```

### **3D Shape Example**

```python
from models import World
from projection import Cube

world = World(width=20, height=20, space=' ')
cube = Cube(5, 5, 5)

cube.grab(10, 10, 0)
cube.rotate_x(45)
cube.rotate_y(45)
cube.rotate_z(45)
cube.add_points()

World.draw()
```

### **Animation Example**

```python
Animator = Animation(square)

Animator.translation(15, 15, "scale")
world.add_to_sence(square)

while True:
    world.refresh()
```

---

## Roadmap

* [ ] Complete 3D modeling tools
* [ ] More modifiers (extrude, bevel, distort, inset)
* [ ] Physics simulation basics
* [ ] Full text-animation suite
* [ ] Rendering optimization

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, feature requests, and issues are welcome!

Commit message:

Add more examples section to README
Added section for more examples in README.

README.md, after:

# CmdEngine

A lightweight **terminal-based shape printer and generator** with tools for **modeling, animating, and mathematical operations**.
Designed for experimenting with ASCII shapes, basic 3D projections, and simple animation logic inside command-line environments.

---

## Features

### Shape Modeling

* **2D built-in shapes:** rectangle, triangle, circle
* **3D built-in shapes:** cube, cylinder, sphere *(early stage)*
* **Shape modifiers:** subdivide, duplicate, mirror
* **Custom shape support** *(work in progress)*
* **Text handling objects** for printing and layout

### Animation System

A variety of animation utilities for both shapes and characters:

* `animation()` — translation and scale tracking
* `shape_animation()` — flipping or shape-change animations
* `subdivide_animation()` — subdivision animation
* `unite_animation()` — individual-character scale-space animation
* `style_animation()` — builder-cell/unit flipping animations
* `text_animation()` — animated text display
* `draw_animation()` — animated “flow of drawing” effect

### Tools Included

* Basic math utilities: `Vec2`, `Vec3`
* Logical and helper tools for geometry & scene management

---

## 🧱 Usage Examples

### **2D Shape Example**

```python
from cmn.models import Rectangle

square = Rectangle(10, 10)
square.draw()
```

### **3D Shape Example**

```python
from models import World
from projection import Cube

world = World(width=20, height=20, space=' ')
cube = Cube(5, 5, 5)

cube.grab(10, 10, 0)
cube.rotate_x(45)
cube.rotate_y(45)
cube.rotate_z(45)
cube.add_points()

World.draw()
```

### **Animation Example**

```python
Animator = Animation(square)

Animator.translation(15, 15, "scale")
world.add_to_sence(square)

while True:
    world.refresh()
```

### **More Examples**
You may check `Boom.py` for 2D and `view.py` for 3D.
---

## Roadmap

* [ ] Complete 3D modeling tools
* [ ] More modifiers (extrude, bevel, distort, inset)
* [ ] Physics simulation basics
* [ ] Full text-animation suite
* [ ] Rendering optimization

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, feature requests, and issues are welcome!
